# SOC_Final_Project

This is the project code for a dual temperature monitoring system. When implemented on a Nexys 4 DDR board with its Microblaze processor, it operates by monitoring the internal and external temperatures of the board. 
The internal temperature reading is gathered by the XADC core on the MMIO bus, and the external temperature reading is gathered from the I2C core on the MMIO bus. Both readings are stored in their core's corresponding registers to be handled by the processor functions. Any negative temperature readings are clamped to zero. 
These temperatures are displayed simultaneously on the board's seven segment display. The temperatures are rounded to the nearest tenth when the temperature is below 100 Celsius or Fahrenheit. The decimal point shifts and the temperature rounds to whole numbers when the temperature reading is at least 100 Celsius or Fahrenheit. This is due to there being eight total seven segment display digits and two of them are reserved for Celsius or Fahrenheit symbols for the two temperature readings.
The temperatures displayed on the board can be formatted independently to be in either Celsius or Fahrenheit based on the user switch input. SW7 controls the external I2C temperature displayed on the right side of the seven segment display. SW15 controls the internal XADC temperature displayed on the left side of the seven segment display. If one of the switches is off (0) its respective temperature reading is displayed in Celsius, and if one of the switches is on (1) its respective temperature is displayed in Fahrenheit.
The remaining user switches are used as input for sensor temperature limits. Switches 0-6 correspond to the external I2C temperature displayed on the right side of the seven segment display, and switches 8-14 correspond to the internal XADC temperature displayed on the left side of the seven segment display. These switch inputs are read as the binary value of the temperature limit in Celsius. The user could set a temperature limit from 0 to 127 degrees Celsius with the seven available switches for each temperature reading. Note that even when the temperature display is set to Fahrenheit, the temperature limit is still interpreted in Celsius. LEDs 0-6 and 8-14 mirror the values of the corresponding switches to make the input values clear to the user. 
The PWM core is also used in this project to operate the board's RGBs. When either the external I2C temperature reading or the internal XADC temperature reading is at or below its temperature limit set by the corresponding switches, its corresponding RGB is green. When that temperature reading is greater than the limit, the corresponding RGB turns red to notify the user of the increased temperature. The right RGB corresponds to the external I2C temperature displayed on the right side of the seven segment display, and the left RGB corresponds to the internal XADC temperature displayed on the left side of the seven segment display.
